#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\master main.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Future plans
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ever since I joined the microreactor team, the setup has been in a permanent
 state of flux, and I am happy that this condition does not seem to end
 any time soon.
 So far we have several plans for enhancements, some is almost guaranteed
 to be implemented and others are perhaps somewhat more optimistic.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Storing the flow-files with the data: It would be a great advantage in the
 daily work to know exactly what flow-file was used to run a given experiment.
 Right now we log all measured parameters, but we do log the intended values
 of these parameters.
 This means that if an experiment does not run exactly as expected, it can
 be hard to tell whether it was simply the operator that set up the experiment
 wrong, or if it was some sort of malfunction that prevented the experiment
 from running correctly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Better software: Most of the software is currently written as a few rather
 monstrous LabView programs because this has been the default language at
 the department.
 However, are now slowly moving to a more modular approach where sub-sections
 of the code can be separated into individual programs, possibly written
 in other programming languages, so far we already interface quite a few
 instruments in Python on other setups and it would be obvious to gradually
 also turn the microreactors in this direction.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Mounting for a microscope on the NG setup.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Adding an optional pumping path between the buffer chambers and the turbo.
 Currently the buffer chambers are pumped by a turbo pump through 
\begin_inset Formula $1/4"$
\end_inset

 tubing because this limited radius protects the turbo when large amount
 of gas is being dumped in the buffer volume.
 However, often one knows that no further gas is going to be dumped into
 the buffer volume and one just wants to pump down the buffer sufficiently
 to be able to start the experiment.
 In situations like this, it would be extremely useful to have an optional
 pumping path of much larger diameter.
 This could easily be achieved by mounting a 
\begin_inset Formula $2\frac{3}{4}"$
\end_inset

-bellow and a pneumatically controlled valve between the buffer and the
 turbo.
 Such a device would significantly reduce the time needed to pump down a
 new sample before starting measurements.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Re-building the old setup.
 Currently only one of our setups are equipped with the newest improvements
 of full automation and an evacuated containment volume, these improvements
 obviously need to be applied to the other setup as well.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In-situ deposition and bonding under UHV conditions.
 This is a slightly ambitious project but with a potentially very high value.
 The point would be to build a chamber where it is possible to deposit cluster
 samples on a microreactor, perform various kinds of analysis and finally
 bond the sample, all under UHV conditions.
 This would significantly enhance the microreactor platform as a tool to
 bridge the pressure gap between traditional UHV analysis and the high pressure
 conditions of the microreactor, since we would be able to measure on truly
 clean samples that have never been exposed to air.
 Of course transfer between this setup and the microreactor setup would
 be a weak point since this cannot possibly be done under UHV conditions.
 Our proposal for the transfer would be to fill the reactor with 1
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

bar of inert gas before removing it from the bonding setup.
 Filled with gas, the reactor will only see air if the sample is exposed
 to air long enough that it will diffuse all the way through the mixing
 channels and into the reactor volume.
 The time-scale for this should be sufficiently long that it is possible
 to either mount the sample in the microreactor setup and evacuate it, or
 to store the in a suitable clean environment, preferably some sort of evacuated
 storage.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
UHV connection between sputter deposition chamber and cluster deposition.
 CINF recently acquired a high-quality sputter deposition system capable
 of depositing a very large range of materials, including many oxides.
 If this system is attached to the future in-situ bonding setup, it would
 be possible to use the microreactor for exploring a wide range of substrate
 effects, since it would be possible to sputter-deposit the wanted substrate,
 then deposit clusters, characterize the sample using either auger or TPDs
 before finally bonding and remove the sample, all under highly clean conditions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Application of in-situ techniques
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
