#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\master main.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Sensitivity measurements
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "chap:Sensitivity-measurements"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the original design goals of the microeactors was that the reactors
 should have a high sensitivity to able to measure on very small amounts
 of catalyst.
 However, during the measurements on the oscillations, we relized that we
 were able to reach full conversion on sample with even very small amounts
 of catalyst.
 At some point we realized that it would be interesting to test how small
 amount of catalyst we can actually get to full conversion.
 To test the sensitivity we have performed of series of tests using CO oxidation
 on Pt thin films as the test reaction.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Experimental procedure
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The experiment is in principle very simple, allthough rather time consuming.
 We had our good friends in the clean room make series of samples with consecuti
vely smaller and smaller Pt-spots.
 The experiments was all performed by a procedure looking as follows:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Dose gas...
 oxygen rich 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
varme....
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
køle....
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
pumpe....
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
CO oxidation on Pt is a reaction the follows a so-called light-off curve
 when the sample is heated.
 This phenomenon originates from the fact that CO has a much higher sticking
 coefficient 
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Ref??
\end_layout

\end_inset

 than oxygen on Pt.
 Due to this high sticking coefficient, every free site on the sample will
 be imidiately occupied by CO once the sample is exposed to the reacting
 gas.
 The lack of free sites on the sample prevents oxygen from adsorbing on
 the catalyst and prevents the catalytic conversion.
 When the temperature of the sample is increased, the residence time of
 CO on the sample will get shorter and shorter, and eventually the oxygen
 will gain access to free Pt-sites.
 Once this happens, the oxygen will react with the CO according to the very
 simple reaction equation:
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
\mbox{2CO}+\mbox{O}_{2}\rightarrow\mbox{CO}_{2}
\]

\end_inset

this oxygen molecule will thus burn off two CO molecules and leave CO
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

 which has an extremely short residence time on Pt, thus leaving two additional
 free sites.
 These new free sites will provide room for even more oxygen molecules and
 it is easy to imagine how the Pt surface will 'ignite' and react off all
 CO very suddenly.
 This phenomenon is what is known as lightoff and it has a clear experimental
 signature in the form of an extremely sudden onset of the reaction as well
 as significant temperature hysterises due to the fact that when the sample
 cools down it still has all the free sites and thus it will sustain conversion
 to far lower temperatures than the ignition temperature.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As the spot size gets smaller and smaller, we need to go higher and higher
 in temperature to achive full conversion of the reacting gas.
 As mentioned in chapter
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset


\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "chap:Temperature"

\end_inset

, the current heater design is not really comfortable going much higher
 than 
\begin_inset Formula $\sim$
\end_inset

375
\begin_inset Formula $^{\circ}$
\end_inset

C.....
 
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Se på temperature af den varmeste
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Data treatment
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Even though the experiment sound simple, data treatment is actually slightly
 complicated due to the nature of the microreactor.
 First of all the microreactors has the intrinsic property, that the capillary
 flow is decreased as the temperature increases due to an increase in the
 flow resistance with temperature.
 This means that even for constant conversion (as would be the case for
 full conversion) the product signal in the mass-spec will drop.
 For the same reason, the residence time of the reactor will increase and
 thus the apparant activity of the reactor.
 To correct for this effect, one will typically use the main chamber pressure
 as a measure of the capillary flow.
 However, this is also a non-trivial operation because of the way the pressure
 in measured in the chamber, namely by an ion gauge.
 Ion gauges meassures pressure by ionising the residual gas and the collect
 the ions on a thin collector wire in the center of the device, the pressure
 is then read as the current on the collector times a calibration factor
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "BAYARD1950"

\end_inset

.
 The correction factor is what gives us problems in the current application
 since the product CO
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

 has a sensitivity factor that is considerably different from CO and O
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

, compared to nitrogren the values are
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "gascorrection"

\end_inset

: CO: 1.05, O
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

: 1.01, CO
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

: 1.42.
 Since CO
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

 is the only gas to have a factor signifanctly different from 1, which means
 that we should expect to see the apparant chamber pressure to increase
 the sample get into lightoff.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Besides correcting for the temperature dependence of the flow through the
 capiilary, it is also necessary to correct for the background signals in
 the mass-spectrometer.
 Since the experiments are run in a rather large oxygen excess, oxygen will
 always be present in the flow into the main chamber.
 In the mass-spectrometer, the oxygen will give rise not only to a signal
 at mass
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

32 (the oxygen itself), but also a signal at mass
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

44, which is in our case CO
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

.
 The reason for this is, that the mass-spectrometer filament will always
 contain carbon and because of the very high temperature at the filmanet,
 this carbon will react rather efficiently with the oxygen and produce CO
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

.
 For this reason, it is impossible to eliminate the CO
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

 background even the main chamber has a good background pressure, and thus
 the effect of this background must also be handled.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once all the correction are performed as well as possible, it is time to
 extract an activation energy and a prefactor for each platinum spot.
 The point of the experiment is to see how small the spot can be and still
 withhold a constant activation energy and a prefactor liniar dependant
 on the spot area.
 To do this, we fit the data to the the Arrhenius equation 
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
REF!
\end_layout

\end_inset

:
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
k=Ae^{-E_{a}/k_{b}T}
\]

\end_inset

, which will give activation energy as well as the pre-factor.
 The fitting is performed by a small python script which takes data from
 the CINF database and fits the data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Results
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Lessones to be learned
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Besides the obviously interesting point in measureing how high the turn-over
 frequency can actually be, this results also put focus on the fact that
 extremely small amounts of catalyst can be responsible for much reactivity.
 In the case of the microreactors this is important in at least two ways.
 First of all it means, that we must be extremely carefull to avoid any
 kind of metal pollution in the reactor, especially platinum.
 This can be slightly more tricky that it sounds, since in the cleanroom,
 metal pollution in never far away, and we actually have seen examples of
 metal pollution in the reactors with any attempt to find the source being
 fruitless.
 Also, one should remeber that we have the heater on the backside of the
 reactor, which is made of Pt.
 It is of crucial importantance to be able to deposit this heater without
 even trace amount of Pt finding its way to the other side of the reactor.
 This is ensured by e-beam evaporating the Pt through a shadow mask.
 Other ways of depositing the heaters also exists, but these techniques
 often involves various wet-chemistry steps which means that small amounts
 of Pt could find its way from the backside to the frontside through the
 liquid fase.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The other important lesson to be learned is that one should be extremely
 carefull when trying to apply in-situ methods.
 Even though in-situ methods is not easy to apply in a microreactor, we
 are continously considering our options in this field, since this would
 significantly increase the usefullness of the microreactors.
 However, even in the rather optimistic case, that we actually do succeed
 in finding methods that would provide in-situ information, the fact that
 such small areas of the reactor might, at least in some cases, be responsible
 for all the conversion.
 This means that whatever technique is being applied might primarily sample
 areas of the sample that is not actually doing the conversion.
 A technique with low spatial resolution might be easy to measure on the
 converting part of catalyst, but the signal to noise ration will be poor,
 potentially too low to see anyting.
 A technique with better spatial resolution will give a much better signal
 to noise, but faces the where real risk of not seeing the relevant part
 of the sample at all.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
