#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\master main.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Analytical techniques
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A majer disadvantage of the microreactor setup is the distinct lack of analytica
l techniques available to investigate the catalyst doing measurements.
 In traditional reactors access to techniques such as XPS, AES or various
 infrared techniques gives extremely valueble insights into the state of
 the catalyst surface as well as sometimes even information about intermidiate
 species on the surface.
 Such a luxury is not availble on the microractor, the sealed nature of
 the reactor makes it extremely difficult to access the sample with clasical
 techniques.
 Even post-mortem analysis is difficult because no known way exist to open
 up an anodic bonding in a non-destructive way.
 Doing the project we have time and time again discussed the possibility
 of adding any kind of instrumentation that would reveal insigt into either
 in-situ doing reaction or just means to investigate the surface before
 and after exposing it to reaction conditions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
LIST THE VARIOUS TECHNIQUES THAT HAS BEEN DISCUSSED (RAMAN, FT-IR, plasmonic
 structures, XRD, synchrotron hi-pressure XPS.....)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Post-mortem analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It would seem obvious that the least ambitious way of gaining insight into
 the surface is to simply analyse the surface after is has been exposed
 to the relevant experiments.
 This will typically mean that the reactor is somehow opened up after the
 experiment.
 This is not as easy as it may sound, since the anodic bonding is extremely
 strong and the silicon reactor itself is very fragile.
 Simply removing the lid is by now considered to be impossible, there is
 simply no way of cleaving off the lid from the sample.
 Earlier it has been tried to simply break the sample using some sort of
 mechanical means such to crack the sample into a hopefully limited amount
 of pieces, some of these pieces will possibly be entirely within the reactor
 area and therefore the lid will come off rather easily because it is only
 bonded to a few pillars.
 This method works and has been used to open samples to do XPS, but it is
 a primitive and dangerous technique that might easily completely break
 the sample with no usefull pieces left.
 This is particulaly unfortunate since a sample one is trying to do post-mortem
 analysis on, is typically an important sample that would require large
 amounts of work to re-create.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For this reason a more reliable method is wanted.
 We went through several attempts before coming up with a working solution.
 Among the failed attempts was attempts to weaken the reactor with a diamond
 saw and then pressurising the reactor to 2.5bar of overpressure hoping the
 pressure would push out a piece of the reactor.
 Etching the lid away with HF gas also been considered but this is a really
 bad solution both becasue it is rather dangerous and because it is a very
 dirty way of opening since HF will inevitably leak into the reactor volume.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The answer to the problem turned out to be to cut four lines with a diamond
 saw in a way that leave the larges possible square of the reactor.
 If the cut is approximately 90% of the total depth of the reactor, it can
 quite easily be opened by hand once it is ready to be mounted in what ever
 instrument that should be used for the examination.
 INSERT XPS OF A SAMPLE EXPOSED TO LARGE AMOUNTS OF CO
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Cutting with a diamond saw
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
SHOW XPS spectrum of clean sample
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Non-bonded samples
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Time-Of-Flight Mass Spectrometry
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
