#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\master main.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Temperature control
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Measuring temperature accurately is always a difficult task.
 For the microreactor, the problem is especially tricky because the 2D-like
 structure and small thermal mass of the system means that is difficult
 to establish a well defined temperature across the entire reactor volume.
 To complicate things even further it is also higly difficult to achive
 a constant temperature across the reactor.
 First of all the contact between the highly heat-conducting silicon wafer
 and the comparatively cold metal interface block means that a constant
 heat transfer occurs on the chip whenever the chip is heated.
 This of course leads to temperature gradients along the chip.
 Also convention losses to the surroingings will contribute a non-homogenours
 heat-loss to the surroundings.
 This given an ideal simple heating mechanism that simply delivers a constant
 power pr.
 area to the entire chip, the result would be a non uniform temperature
 that would be hottest at the center of chip, colder along the edge and
 coldest at the contact between the interface block and the chip.
 To complicate things even further, no such 'ideal' heating device exists,
 in fact it is not easy to deliver power in a uniform way.
 In the first iteration of the setup, heating was done via a small cheramical
 block with a hot filemant inside.
 This has several advantages in the way of mechanical handling and very
 easy interfacing, since it only needs to be fed a DC-voltage of the size
 of a few volts.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
