#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\master ../main.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The need for new catalysts
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The world is facing many challenges within the coming years.
 Oil prices are rising, and so is the CO
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

 level in the atmosphere, more and more cuntries becomes more and more dependant
 on supplies of fossil fuels from fewer and fewer cuntries, and this is
 just to mention the problems being discussed in the popular media.
 In the real world many other challeges are facing us like the great lack
 of many natural resources, espcially the so-called rate-earth metals.
 To make the situation even more interesting, this resource is not even
 as rare as name implies, more did we quite conciously stop mining these
 resources because a single cuntry was willing to produce them slightly
 cheaper than the world market price at that point.
 In general it seems that we openmindedly are trying our very best to build
 a very fragile society, even in areas where Nature itself actually do not
 really limit the access to resource, so-called economic expert will make
 sure to create a problem for us.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
.....
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
....
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, all these problems can also be seen as interesting challenges that
 need new solutions, and this is where the scientific community steps in
 to hopefully provide solutions for many of these problems.
 Of course this will require inputs from many areas of research....
 ....
 ...
 Obviously heterogenous catalysis is only a small part of this very large
 and complicated field.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
....
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is an interesting thought, that we as humans actually already know and
 masters several technologies that can potentially solve large parts of
 the energy problem.
 Such solutions includes both energy saving initiatives such as better insulatio
n in housing, buildings with less demands for cooling, more tele-working
 reducing the demand for transportation...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, it seems to be a law of nature that despite all efforts to lower
 energy consumption, on average the consumption integrated over the entire
 world, inevitable goes up.
 This means that it will be neseccary to find ways of producing fairly cheap
 energy, preferebly without resorting the fossil fuels even more polluting
 than what we are currently using.
 Also in this field several candidates exists that is fully capable of providing
 substantial (if not complete) parts of the worlds total energy consumption.
 This technologies includes solar cells, solar-thermal electricity production,
 hydro-power, nuclear power and wind turbines.
 All of these technologies has their pros and cons, however, as I am myself
 particular found of wind turbines, I will take the liberty of using this
 technology as an example for a quick back-of-the-envelope calculation.
 The total energy consumption is currently around 16
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

TW, but to make things simple we take it to be 
\begin_inset Formula $P_{world}=20\,\mbox{TW}$
\end_inset

.
 A typical wind turbine at the moment would be around 3 to 4
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

MW (although it seems that turbines even as large as 6 or 7
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

MW are soon entering the market).
 With typical capacity factors between 0.25 and 0.33 it seems reasonoble to
 take on avarage 
\begin_inset Formula $P_{turbine}=1\,\mbox{MW}$
\end_inset

.
 These convinient choise of numbers puts us with a needed number of wind
 turbines to satisfy the worlds energy needs of 
\begin_inset Formula $2\times10^{13}/1\times10^{6}=10^{7}$
\end_inset

 wind turbines, not including energy storage loss.
 The design lifetime of almost all windturbines on the market is 20 years
 (which in the real world seems to be a lower limit on the lifetime).
 This gives us a final number of the required number of wind turbines pr.
 year to be 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{7}/20=5\times10^{5}$
\end_inset

 turbines or in units of peak power (which is the typical way of counting
 many kinds of energy producing devices) , 
\begin_inset Formula $\sim2\times10^{6}$
\end_inset


\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

MW-peak.
 Currently the wold production is on the order of ??? FIND TALLET!!!!.
 As a rule of thumb, the price of the bare turbine, not including cabling
 and mounting, is around 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{6}\text{£}/\mbox{MW}$
\end_inset

, typical prices for cabling and mounting end up with a total price between
 2 and 5 times higher than this, a conservatime estimate of total cost would
 thus be 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{7}\text{£}/\mbox{MW}$
\end_inset

.
 Thus it is straightforward to calculate to a conservative estimate of the
 yearly price of proving 100% wind energy to the entire world:
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
\mbox{Total\,\ cost}\sim2\times10^{6}\times10^{7}=2\times10^{13}\text{£}/\mbox{y}
\]

\end_inset

, not including storage loss.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Microreactors for Heterogenous Catalysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As the title of this thesis indicates, the main part of this work has not
 so much been on actual scientific results as it has been centered around
 creating a world-class experimental setup for testing many kinds of heterogenou
s catalysis.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
