#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\master ../main.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Time Of Flight Mass Sepectrometry
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As mentioned in chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "chap:Analytical-techniques"

\end_inset

, the attachment of a Time Of Flight Mass Spectrometer to the new microreactor
 setup, has turned out to be an extraordinary success.
 Since this has proven to be such a usefull addition to the setup, I have
 chosen to dedicate a chapter to this technique.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Instrumentation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The instrument was bought as an assembly kit from Jordan TOF Products 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "JordanHomepage"

\end_inset

 and was put together here in the lab.
 The frame and the pumps for the system was scavenged from an old molecular
 beam setup that had been idling in the lab for some years.
 and thus is a wonderfull mixture of many different kind of flanges and
 pumps which happended to be available.
 This turns out to be a 120
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

l/s ion pump, used to differentially pump the flight tube, and a 400
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

l/s ion pump and a 450
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

l/s turbo pump used to pump the source region.
 At this point in time, we have not tried to bake the chamber and this means
 we have a rather poor background pressure of 
\begin_inset Formula $\sim10^{-9}\,$
\end_inset

mbar in both the source region and flight tube.
 However, it will make good sense to actually bake the chamber to bring
 down background pressure since the background pressure contributes with
 dead-counts on the detector and thus degrades the signal to noise ratio
 of the instrument.
 All parts of the setup are fully UHV compatible and since we have quite
 good pumping capacity, it is to be expected that we can get well below
 
\begin_inset Formula $\sim10^{-10}\,$
\end_inset

mbar once the chamber is properly baked.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The parts bought from Jordan of course constitutes the actual analytical
 instruments and is what is known as a Orthogonal Acceleration TOF which
 means that the ions to be measured enters the acceleration region orthonal
 to the direction of flight.
 This is especially well suited to measure on externally generated ions,
 which is actually not the case when measuring on the microreactors, the
 output from the capillary is obviously not ionsed when leaving the reactor.
 However, the reason for choosing this type of instrument is, that we originally
 expected to used the TOF as a characterization tool for the two cluster
 source at the department, and these instrument actually do have an ionized
 output.
 This little experimental detail means, that we had to build our own ionization
 source to be able to use the instrument at all.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Numerical model (direkte fra artikel...)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since the TOF-MS only measures flight time and not the actual mass of the
 measured molecules or atoms it is necessary to determine the relationship
 between flight time and actual mass.
 This can be done by calibration masses expressing known patterns in the
 mass spectrum.
 In this way masses can be reasonably determined with subsequent fitting
 of these values to get an expression for the flight time as a function
 of mass.
 This approach is in some cases adequate but does have the significant drawback
 that several peaks of well known masses must be present in the flight spectrum
 which is not always necessarily feasible.
 To determine the relationship between mass and flight time we have made
 a numeric model of the mass spectrometer which calculates the flight time
 based only on the voltages for the pulser, 
\begin_inset Formula $V_{P}$
\end_inset

, liner, 
\begin_inset Formula $V_{L}$
\end_inset

, and reflectron, 
\begin_inset Formula $V_{R1}$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $V_{R2}$
\end_inset

, and thus provides a relationship of flight time to mass.
 Typically, the model is used together with the experimental determination
 of a single mass since this will help fix the unknown delays originating
 from the measurement trigger, rise time of the high-voltage pulse at the
 repeller plate and cable delays.
 As seen in Figure~
\backslash
ref{fig:model_error} the performance of the model is good despite its simplicity
 giving a total error in flight time estimation of $
\backslash
sim$10
\backslash
,ns corresponding to $
\backslash
sim$50
\backslash
,milli-amu at 70
\backslash
,amu.
 The model is written in Python and can be acquired online
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "ModelGithub"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
